-: Hi, welcome back.
I am Kalyan Reddy Daida and I will be your instructor
in this EKS Kubernetes Masterclass course.
So let's see the course outline on a high level.
So this outline is also going to be very detailed
because the course is also a very longer course
which hits close to 20 of us. An outline,
also we need to understand in detail before going in.
So we'll see what all concepts we are going to cover
as part of this course.
So we have divided the topics into four major sections.
So which is Kubernetes concepts, AWS services, integration
with EKS means like what all AWS services we can use
in relation with elastic Kubernetes service
of AWS and Dev-Ops concepts and then microservices concepts.
So let's see what all covered under Kubernetes concepts.
So close to 30 Kubernetes concepts are covered
as part of this entire course and whenever
we are writing these concepts related
YAML declarative files, we are going to
do a live template writing sections wherever it is required.
So in addition to that, covering all these Kubernetes
concepts, we also cover integration with close to 18
or 19 AWS services in relation with EKS. Which is
elastic Kubernetes service for example, you can see here
so this is EKS and then we'll have Fargate
we'll have certificate manager, we'll have Route 53,
we'll have elastic block store and RDS database
and then elastic load balancing with the classic load
balancer, network load balancer and
application load balancer with ingress service.
So like this all, whatever the possibilities there
which are in integration with EKS, we have tried to get them
under this course. And next thing is Dev-Ops, right?
So from Dev-Ops perspective, using AWS code services.
We have implemented IT Dev-Ops pipeline to understanding
better for both the applications and also
the Kubernetes manifest. So, which means
like if you make any change to your Kubernetes manifest
and then check in that core that will get
deployed to your Kubernetes cluster.
If you make any changes to your application and then check
in your application core. So it'll build
a new docker image and then deploy
to the Kubernetes cluster. So both ways,
the pipeline is built for you.
And next is microservices. So,
from microservices perspective, the core concepts
in relation with Kubernetes will be service discovery,
distributed tracing, and then canary deployments.
So those also we have looked into before moving on
to bigger things in Kubernetes.
So we are going to learn both docker and then
Kubernetes fundamentals in the fundamental section.
So there will be a dedicated docker fundamental
section available for us. So where we build
a simple docker image, push it to docker hub
and then even pull from docker hub and then understand
that docker terminology like what is docker registry?
What is docker hub? What is docker image? What is container?
So we'll understand all those things
in the docker fundamental section.
And then we'll want to Kubernetes
fundamental section wherein we will primarily
focus on implementing Kubernetes
concepts using imperative way and then declarative way.
So here we do lot of live template writing
in the declarative way and then lot
of Kubernetes cube CTL command in the imperative section
and then get a full idea about Kubernetes from ports,
replica sets, deployments and then services perspective.
And from there we'll jump onto big course.
So we will start with in this course with the EKS storage
with EBS CSI driver, which is elastic block store
and then implement and then learn as part
of that we'll learn how to write a deployment
how to write a Myer skill cluster IP service
or how to write a note port service
and environmental variables, how you are going to define
and volumes, volume mounts, everything
whatever is related to this respective section.
You'll do a live template writing,
here and then understand all these concepts and then
provision these things from your Kubernetes manifest.
So, and then you'll understand
about what are the drawbacks of using EBS CSI driver?
And what are the advantages you are going to
get using RDS database. And then later,
using external name service you are going
to implement it with RDS database.
So now you have completed the database part
with the storage section of storage classes
persistent volume claim config maps, all those things.
So then you'll move on to load balances section, right?
So before moving on to load balances section
whatever you have implemented it's equal
and network diagram looks this way.
So, now, anyway we know that load balances
need to run on public subnets and then our workloads
need to run on private subnets.
So to do so what you are going to do immediately
you are going to delete this respective worker notes here
and then move your workloads to your private subnets.
So you are going to do this and then ensure
that you create a classic load balancer in your public
sublet and then access it. So now you have
implemented your classic load balancer related manifest.
Also, in addition to your, this whole manifest whatever you
have built earlier. And then you will
move on to also creating a network
load balancer manifest and then testing it.
So now you have used classic and then network load balancer.
So now you'll move on to the ingress service
which is super advanced and then
with the tons of features inside that.
So with the ingress service you are
going to implement context part based routing.
Using means like with three applications
you are going to deploy and then you'll
implement the context part based routing
with slash app. One should go to app one.
App two should go to app two and then anything
other than that should go to user management microservice.
In addition to that, in the same ingress service
you'll implement SSL. So you'll enable
the SSL for your application here.
Okay, and then you'll also implement HTTP two,
HTTPS redirection using SSL redirect.
And finally, in ingress load balance
of ALB ingress load balancer you are also
going to implement external DNS.
So external DNS, what it does is automatically
from the Kubernetes manifest you are going to
register your domain name in the Route 53 service.
So that also you are going to do.
So all these things once complete it means like the,
we have completed the database part,
we have completed the deployment part
and we have completed the load balancer part.
So then what comes next, right?
So how to run these in Fargate serverless.
So we will move on that section. Okay,
so in Fargate serverless what we do is
like we will run our workloads in a mixer mode.
In such a way that we'll run few workloads
on our regular manager note groups with easy two instances.
And then we'll also run our Kubernates
that is parts on Fargate. So we are going
to implement this with again three applications, app one
app two and then UMS in a mixer mode deployment.
So wherein app one is running on the EKS manage node groups
and UMS and then app two is running on EKS Fargate profiles.
So this one also we are going to look into in detail.
And then once we complete the Fargate, so we'll move on
to understanding about elastic container registry.
So in relation with EKS elastic Kubernetes service.
So for that purpose what we do is like we'll move on
with the creating a new docker image and then push it
to the elastic container registry and then
use the docker image in our Kubernetes cluster
by deploying the workloads. So that one,
we are going to test and as usual we'll continue
with our ingress load balancer for all these sections also.
Any way we have implemented earlier here, so
in our application load balances section.
So we'll continue to use that ingress load balancer
in all the upcoming demos for getting complete Hands-On
on that respective section two.
Then we'll move on to the Dev-Ops section
and understand the release processes, source build, test
and then production. And we'll also
understand about continuous integration
continuous delivery, continuous deployment,
and then infrastructure as code concepts.
And then move on to understand
about how we are going to implement the Dev-Ops concepts
in AWS in relation with elastic Kubernetes service.
So we'll understand about code commit
checking the sample code here
and we'll do the code bill means
like we'll generate the artifacts and then we'll deploy them
to our respective EKS cluster using cube CTL
and code build combination. And then we
are going to monitor our applications
using Cloud Watch container insights.
So we are also going to implement this Dev-Ops use case
right? And then we'll move on to the microservices section
with two independent microservices built exclusively
for testing microservices, service discovery
and then microservices distributed tracing
and then microservices canary deployments.
So we are going to use these two services
user management microservice and
then notification microservice and
then implement the full use case.
Okay? So whenever you as a developer
when you use Postman client and create a user
it'll call the notification API
and then send an email to end user.
So these two microservices using service discovery.
How you are going to deploy to AWS,
EKS and then this is the way we are going to deploy.
So here we will have EMS note, port service
my collection name, service notification
cluster IP service. So, entire service discovery
how you are going to handle it in, in relation with EKS.
You are going to implement end to end.
And then you'll move on to the next section
of distributed tracing. So for distributed tracing,
you need to deploy your demo sets with X reports.
So using Kubernetes demonstrates concept
you are going to deploy the X reports
and this user management microservice application
and then notification microservice application.
What we have done here is like,
so we have implemented x-ray using x-ray SDK
in those things. So when you deploy those applications
so how the x-ray is going to behave and then what happens.
So using distributed tracing, we are going to see in detail.
So whenever distributed tracing is enabled
you can see the service map such a way that the request
from client comes to user management microservice
and then calls the notification microservice.
So everything you are going to see in detail. From there
you'll move onto traces also in extra traces
if you see here, so the request came to user management
microservice and inside that application it went to
get notification app info, method, and from there it went
to Kubernetes,
Kubernetes service notification cluster service.
And from there again it called
the V one notification microservice, which
in called the means like inside that notification
app version service method was called.
So these traces also we are going to look
into in detail as part of this section.
And then finally for microservices,
we are also going to do the canary deployments, right?
So whenever we call that user management microservice.
There will be two versions of notification service
will be live and the traffic will be distributed based
on how much we configure 50, 50 or 75, 25 like that.
So it is going to do the traffic distribution
to V one notification and then
V two notification microservices.
And using Kubernetes out of the box features,
whatever is available with the pod number changing.
We are going to implement this canary deployments.
So from there, we'll move on to horizontal pod autoscaler,
vertical port autoscaler and also cluster autoscaler.
So all the HPA, VPA and then CA concepts,
we will implement in detail. And then we'll
move on to the container insights, concepts which is nothing
but Kubernetes monitoring and then logging section.
So we are going to use Cloud Watch agent demo set
in our Kubernetes cluster to get the metrics
off all of our Kubernetes cluster
and then applications deployed inside that.
In addition to that, we are also going to deploy
fluent D demonstrate, which will get the application logs
and then Kubernetes cluster logs
for us inside the Cloud Watch.
So as a developer you are going to see what
what container map and then container resources,
performance dashboards, log groups, log insights,
and then alarms. So you are going
to implement all these things in a detailed manner.
You'll, you'll implement alarms
you'll understand about log insights.
And then from log insights you are
going to create the dashboards.
So all these things you are going to do
as part of container insights.
So this is a quick view about the container insights map.
So in EKS demo cluster, you can see
that in Amazon Cloud watch namespace, you can see fluent D
and then Cloud Watch agent parties running
in cube system name space, you can see cube
DNS node and then cube proxy related ports are running.
And in default name space, whatever
the application you have deployed.
So those are running. Sample engine service, sample engines
deployment related part. So all those things are running.
So all in all, we are going to do all
these things as part of this course.
So in our next lecture we are going to see how GitHub repo
and then understand how to move on with this course.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.